The following content is also submitted in pdf format as supplementary material.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dear Reviewers,

We would like to thank you for the many valuable comments we received for our
submission. During the revision, we addressed the issues brought up and revised
the manuscript accordingly. In order to accommodate the necessary changes, the
tenth page now contains both the manuscript as well as the reference, in accordance
with the submission guideline checklist. Below, you will find our responses to the
reviews together with descriptions of the performed changes.

For each concern that was raised by a reviewer, we paraphrase the reviewer’s comments
and then summarize the changes that we made in the manuscript to address
the concern. Finally, we have inserted the original review texts along with references
to the sections where we have discussed the particular concerns.

All references to sections and figures relate to the new layout of the revised submission.

Best regards,
The Authors

1 Reviews and comments
----------------------

1.1 Clarity in the Theory Section
Several reviewers agreed that there were “inconsistencies and confusion due
to lack of definitions and explanations directly in Section 3” and that the
“section is hard to follow, especially when reading for the first time”, which
“come from the fact, that the authors chose to move major parts of the
content to the back of the paper to Appendix A”.

We carefully revised the paper based on reviewers' feedback about the structuring
of Section 3 and the Appendix A. The contents of the appendix were incorporated
into Section 3 in order to make it self-contained and thus improve the flow of the
paper. In the revised version, we introduce the notation and the concepts of interval
arithmetic prior to our analysis of the rendering pipeline thus making it easier
to follow. Furthermore, we have refined our notation to highlight the distinction
between interval matrices and scalar matrices.

1.2 Comparison to prior work
Reviewers raised the point that “a comparison or relation to the large field
of level of detail methods is missing” and “comparisons to the state of the
art or alternative approaches are completely missing”.

To address this point, we improved the related works section and added references
to Section 2 in order to delineate the relation of our work to the previous work in
the field of level of detail and other multiresolution methods.
The results section has been improved by clarifying that Figure 3 shows the result
of our method compared to a method using power scaled coordinates, which is one
of the published state of the art methods for large scale astronomical visualization.
As the only published paper about the ScaleGraph is the 2010 EuroGraphics Area
Paper [KHE*10] and this paper does not contain enough technical details to reproduce
the method, we have not been able to provide a scientific comparison with that method.
However, as pointed out in the related work section, the Uniview 
software which is based on the ScaleGraph does not properly handle stereoscopic
rendering when transitioning between scenes. In Section 4.4, we describe how our
method handles this problem.

1.3 Other use cases
These points questioned which “other potential use cases might benefit from
this method” and that “(limited) thoughts on future extensions are given”
and the reviewer noted that he “would be very interested to hear from the authors
about their thoughts on further challenges in other application fields”.

In order to address this valid concern, we included additional explanations in the
introduction, the beginning of the results sections, as well as providing avenues for
future work in the end of the manuscript, especially dealing with the integration
of datasets that span large extents both spatially and temporally, which is possible
due to our proposed method.

1.4 Performance considerations
The reviewer raises the concern that “no performance considerations [are]
given” for our proposed method.

We added discussions about the performance implications of our method in multiple
places throughout the manuscript; the end of Section 4, Section 4.2, and the results
section now discuss this issue.
Section 4 has been improved to show why our proposed scene graph traversal scheme
does not increase the algorithmic complexity compared to a standard scene graph
traversal and might, dependening on the scene graph structure, even be more performant
as only a local subsection of the sceen graph needs to be evaluated.
Furthermore, we added a description about the algorithmic complexity of updating
the camera attachment node to show that this operation also does not introduce a
performace degredation. Section 5 was modified to clarify that the implementation
of the Dynamic Scene Graph in our reference implementation OpenSpace has not
impacted performance negatively, compared to the Power Scaled Coordinate method
that was previously implemented in the software. Due to the dependence on a scene
graph layout (and thus general irreproducibility), the fact that we do not claim to
have an algorithm that improves the performance, and a restriction in the number
of pages in the manuscript, we chose to omit a detailed discussion of performance
measurements in a separate section of the manuscript.

1.5 Volume rendering
Reviewer 1 raises the issue that we “present a volumetric rendering of the
Milky Way where it remains completely unclear how the volumetric rendering
was performed and how this was integrated with the proposed rendering
pipeline”.
We added a description to the end of Section 5, describing in more detail how
volumetric rendering is integrated with the Dynamic Scene Graph in the OpenSpace
implementation in particular and how it can be integrated in a generic Dynamic
Scene Graph implementation.

1.6 Typographical corrections
Reviewer 1 and 4 noticed a missing reference and some typographical errors.
Thanks to the feedback, these concerns have been corrected in the new version of
the manuscript.


2 Original review texts
-----------------------

This section contains the original reviews. Brief comments, within parentheses,
have been inserted to indicate how and where we have addressed any concern.
For a compact presentation, we have omitted paragraphs with solely
positive or neutral feedback.

Summary Review
[...]
The main points of criticism include that there are no performance considerations
given (performance is discussed in 1.4), the structuring of the manuscript has been
questioned as it introduces inconsistencies and confusion due to lack of definitions
and explanations directly in section 3 (see 1.1), as well the comparison or relation
to the large field of level of detail methods is missing (see 1.2). Also it would be
interesting to understand what other potential use cases might benefit from this
method (see 1.3).
[...]

Review 4
[...]
Section 3 provides a theoretical background for the sources of floating point inaccuracies.
This section is hard to follow, especially when reading for the first time,
and part of this challenge seems to come from the fact, that the authors chose to
move major parts of the content to the back of the paper to Appendix A. This is
problematic and also introduces some inconsistencies. I would suggest to reconsider
or at least fix some of the problematic parts, see below. (Changes to the structure
is discussed in section 1.1.)
[...]
In the end conclusions are drawn and some (limited) thoughts on future extensions
are given. This could be definitely extended a bit, for example I would be very
interested to hear from the authors about their thoughts on further challenges in
other application fields. (Future work is discussed in section 1.3.)

As for the problematic structuring of section 3 vs the Appendix A: Appendix A
is introducing some definitions, which are used in the remainder of section 3 (as
well as to some extent also in the further sections later on, but in front of the
Appendix itself). For example the definition of the interval arithmetic and symbols
is given in the Appendix, but used without any further explanation in most of the
equations in section 3. This is bad and leads to large confusion for the reader. Also
the definition and an example for the catastrophic cancellation is given only in the
Appendix, but referred to in the text of Section 3 as well as Section 4. And further
similar examples would be possible. (Structural changes are discussed in 1.1).

As the Appendix is introducing major integral parts of the theory and definitions,
I would strongly recommend to include it in Section 3, or, if considered impossible,
to at least clearly point the reader to it in a more strict way, mentioning that it is
an integral part and necessary to follow and understand the rest of the paper. Just
pointing the ”interested” reader to this Appendix seems not sufficient enough.
Other errors include:

Section 4.1, paragraph 2: v_i,j is the transformation from node i to j
and v_j,i=-v_i,j as the inverse. Here v_j,i is wrongly displayed as vJ_i

Section 4.1, paragraph 3: By utilizing the shortest path between M and N
we avoid large the (should be: the large) translations which would
otherwise be necessary if the all (should be: all the) transformations
originate ...

Section 4.2., end of paragraph 1: "Likewise, camera B is inside nodes 1,2
and 5 and ... " should be "Likewise, camera B is inside nodes 1,3 and 5
..."" if I understand the Figure 4 correctly. 

Section 5, paragraph about "Space craft.":
"As described in Section ??" -- here a wrong reference is apparent.

Appendix A, last paragraph: there seems to be something wrong with the
statement that "we note that e_ijk=0 if A_ik=0 or A_ik=0" -- here A_ik is
mentioned twice.

(These errors have been addressed, see 1.6.)

Review 1
The authors present the technique dynamic scene graph to visualize interstellar
objects. The paper is structured and written well. Only at page 7 there is a missing
reference (See 1.6). The introduction gives a nice insight into the very different
magnitudes of space objects and their relations as well as the challenges during
rendering. In the following, authors discuss related work with respect to navigation
interaction, space and education, as well as some solutions to the cancellation effects
of floating point numbers. However, they completely omit the whole world of levelof-detail
algorithms out there in computer graphics for decades. Authors should do
an extensive literature research in this direction, since many proposed solutions were
already solved in different ways several years ago. This is also true for numerical
problems of large-scale astronomical simulations; which astrophysics also have dealt
with for decades now. (See 1.2.)

The third section motivates the presented approach. Authors examine how different
operations of vectors and matrices, which are typically applied during rendering,
effect precision. In Equation (1) there is the variable cw and one circular operator
which are not explained. (This was addressed by moving the contents of the appendix
into section 3, see 1.1.) The analysis shows that mainly translations result in
problematic cancellations and the authors show the well-known effect that nonlinear
depth buffers result in precision problems. The following section describes
the algorithms of the dynamic scene graph. Authors propose a navigation that lets
the camera travel in space by traversing the scene graph and successively choosing
respective points of interest. During the traversals, authors try to reduce accuracy
problems by using direct traversal in the hierarchy and utilizing respective matrices.
This procedure can also be adapted to movements of cameras or even objects. The
depth-buffer problems are removed by the well-known approach of linearization,
using actual distance.

In the results section, authors show many nice rendering of interstellar objects.
However, authors do not present at which hardware these renderings were performed
at which performance (See 1.4). Also, they present a volumetric rendering of the
Milky Way where it remains completely unclear how the volumetric rendering was
performed and how this was integrated with the proposed rendering pipeline (see
1.5). In addition, comparisons to the state of the art or alternative approaches are
completely missing (see 1.2).


Review 2
[...]
However, the author needs to give the performance configuration of the experiment
and give a performance comparison with the traditional methods. (This issue is
discussed in 1.4.) In order to prove that the framework can solve the problems.
The evaluation part of this paper should also be improved. (This concern is covered
in 1.2 and 1.4.) It should be written more concretely. The experiment setups, the
dataset used should be stated clearly because it may largely affect the results and
the patterns of the study.

Review 3
This paper addresses the precision problem which is common in the fields of graphics
and visualization. After analyzing the reasons behind the precision problem, this
paper proposes dynamic scene graph-based method for seamlessly high-precision
rendering of large scale scenes. The case studies as well as the supplemental video
demonstrate good results by using the proposed method. The proposed technique
is reproducible for a skilled graduate student.
